We begin with what is Spring Boot Actuator,
and rather than me telling you,
let's take a sneak peak at the demo application that we'll use throughout the
course and I can actually show you some of the features.
I've opened IntelliJ and started the demo application in the background.
The demo application is just a simple REST API for storing to do lists.
It has exactly one endpoint where you can go and retrieve all of the to do
lists along with all of the items in those to-do lists.
Now imagine for a moment that this demo application was actually running in
a production environment and it was serving as the back-end for your cool
new app on the app store called My To-Do List.
Your app is heavily dependent on the back-end for storing
all of its to-do items and unfortunately,
it doesn't work without it.
You're worried that if the back-end API goes down,
people are going to start giving you bad ratings.
This is where Spring Boot Actuator comes in.
Spring Boot Actuator helps you run your Spring Boot Applications in production.
With Spring Boot Actuators built-in help endpoint,
it's really easy to tell whether or not your
application is healthy or unhealthy.
Simply make a call to the /actuator/health endpoint
and you'll get all the details.
Curious how much memory your application is using in production, no problem.
Just use the metrics endpoint with the jvm.memory .used
metric and you'll immediately know.
What if you suspect your application running in
production has the wrong configuration value.
How do you know?
With Spring Boot Actuator, it's no problem.
Just hit the configprops endpoint and you'll be able to see all of the
configured application properties in your running application.
In general,
Spring Boot Actuator provides a number of features that help you ensure that your application is running well in production.